---
layout: post
title: Using Translation in TeamSite to Reach a Wider Audience
---


# Using Translation in TeamSite to Reach a Wider Audience

## Importance of Translation?

In an increasingly globalized world, fast and accurate content
translation is more important than ever. Considering localizing content
is important to:

-   Expand your Brand’s reach to non-English speaking audiences.

-   Improving User trust in your site’s messaging. Localization
    decreases communication errors and helps in creating a relationship
    with the audience.

-   Enhances SEO benefits with multilingual content. Localized content
    is full of SEO-rich keywords that improve discovery when users
    search in their preferred languages.

-   Translated content helps to better educate Users by allowing for a
    localized content strategy.

-   Stay compliant with local laws

-   Improve Customer Service by ensuring Users are getting information
    directly from your site. In a survey by Common Sense Advisory, 56
    percent of consumers say that having product information available
    in their native language is more important than price when making a
    decision.

A language survey of internet users shows that almost **75% of internet
users don’t speak English**. With the three other largest languages
being Chinese (20%), Spanish (8%), and Arabic (5%). Couple this with the
fact that **60% of existing websites host English-language content** and
the discrepancy between regional userbases and localized content becomes
apparent.

While English is a standard across the board, other languages have been
raising in popularity and further drive user engagement by providing
authentic content in the user’s native tongue.

This diagram shows the market positions in terms of popularity and
traffic of the 5 most popular content languages. For example, while
there are more Russian sites than Spanish ones, the Spanish sites have a
much higher traffic since they’re being used more frequently by the
large Spanish-speaking user base.

<img src="\just-the-docs\assets\images\docs\public\language-translation-with-fluint\image1.png" style="width:3.78252in;height:3.78252in" alt="Market Position Report" />

> Further Reading/Sources:
>
> [Number of Internet Users by
> Language](http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats7.htm)
>
> [W3 Techs Site Language
> Stats](https://w3techs.com/technologies/overview/content_language)

## Picking the Right Translator Service

With the trending rise of Artificial Intelligence backed translation
there has been an explosion in services providing on-the-spot
translation by using platforms such as Google Translate, Microsoft
Translate, iTranslate, etc.

Automated translation services should be used when:

-   A quick turnaround time is priority

-   A “fair approximation” of the text is all required, an exact
    translation is not needed.

-   Budget conservation is paramount

Automation is an incredibly powerful tool, especially when considering a
mountain of authored content that requires multiple translations. And
while AI-backed automation is constantly improving in accuracy and
speed, it is currently nowhere near infallible. One thing to remember is
that **an automated service cannot understand if the produced
translation makes sense**.

Human-backed translation improves on the following:

-   Replicating tone and style

-   Better connection of words and context, something AI still struggles
    with

-   Understanding cultural references

-   Authors occasionally break grammatical rules in the name of
    creativity

    -   E.g. "We Don't Need No Education!" by Pink Floyd

The comparison boils down to the fact that language is tricky and, while
automated services have made incredible progress in the last decade,
human translation is going to provide better quality and more culturally
accurate translations every time.

&lt;list of KG translation partners?&gt;

Further Reading: [How Accurate is Google
Translate?](https://www.lptranslations.com/blog/how-accurate-is-google-translate/)

## Translation in OpenText TeamSite

TeamSite has a handful of built-in localization features that provide
easy management and comparison of translated content. Out of the box,
TeamSite contains the Automatic Translation feature &lt;verify&gt; which
integrates with Google Translate so users can provide copy in their
master language and receive the translated text instantly. In addition,
TeamSite provides:

-   Localization for Geography, in order to track differences between
    French Canadian and Parisian French, for example

-   Approval workflow which ensures human oversight before content goes
    live

In order to get more accurate translations, the Fluint module can make
the connection between TeamSite and leading Translation Providers.

## Structuring Your Translated Content in TeamSite

There are various options when it comes to how translated content lives
in your site. Sometimes an existing site needs localization in order to
best reach a customer base, other times a site can be built from scratch
with localization in mind. But at the end of the day the location of the
translated pages can impact both the ease of content authoring and how
the final page URL is generated. In our experience, ….

Example 1: Single Site Structure

This is a case where the site’s structure is identical in all
localizations. One way to accomplish this is to build a single page but
have LiveSite Content Services (LSCS) deliver different translated
content to each page individually based on. In this case, the language
is determined by the localization defined in the URL, then LSCS returns
content tagged with that locale.

<img src="\just-the-docs\assets\images\docs\public\language-translation-with-fluint\image2.png" style="width:6.5in;height:2.71875in" alt="Diagram Description automatically generated" />

Example 2: Independent Localized Sites

There are times when it isn’t necessary to have the entire site
structure available in each locale, but instead have a subset of pages
that are tailed for a particular language. This is popular on sites that
want to appeal to an international audience without requiring a full
site buildout or redesign. In this case the amount of translated content
per locale can be easily controlled.

<img src="\just-the-docs\assets\images\docs\public\language-translation-with-fluint\image3.png" style="width:6.5in;height:1.80278in" alt="Diagram Description automatically generated" />

Example 3: Single Site with Google Translate

The easiest, non-involved way to add localization to an existing site is
simply by popping in a Google Translate dropdown. This is entirely
front-end based and does not require any authored content translation.
This is an accessible option, but falls victim to the accuracy issues
raised above.

## Translating Content with Fluint

The top two examples above require author content to be translated and
ideally tagged with the locale code so it can be easily differentiated
and targeted by LSCS. An easy way of doing this involves using Fluint to
pass selected content through a custom workflow that allows for it to be
automatically translated and routed to the appropriate location.

Fluint is an out of the box connector module, built by Klish Group,
which integrates TeamSite with leading Translation Providers to allow
simple, continuous translation of web content.​

By using a collection of TeamSite Workflow Processes that guide the
translation process within the CMS, Fluint enables automated content
submission and retrieval within TeamSite platform.​

## Fluint’s Capabilities

Fluint facilitates native connectivity to translation partners in order
to:

-   Translate SitePublisher Sites​

-   Translate Experience Studio Sites (Correct?)

-   Track Progress within TeamSite​

-   Translate Extended Attribute Metadata​ (Also want to translate
    metadata… and here’s why…)

-   Smart Filtering of User Selections​

-   Works with TeamSite GCM Solution​

-   Quote Translation​

-   Automatic or Manual Configuration of Projects​

 <img src="\just-the-docs\assets\images\docs\public\language-translation-with-fluint\image4.jpeg" style="width:3.12153in;height:3.33056in" />

Forms are created in the native TeamSite Data Capture Template (DCT)

<img src="\just-the-docs\assets\images\docs\public\language-translation-with-fluint\image5.jpeg" style="width:6.5in;height:1.23056in" />

Fluint’s Translation Workflow tab integrates with the existing UI

 <img src="\just-the-docs\assets\images\docs\public\language-translation-with-fluint\image6.jpeg" style="width:6.5in;height:1.70556in" />

Compatible with TeamSite Globalized Content Management Module and its
Monitor Localizations dashboard functionality

##  Installation is Fast and Simple

-   Can be installed and sending content in less than a day​

-   Only requires a small database, no additional infrastructure

-   No Firewall configurations are required since all requests are
    initiated from TeamSite,

-   Written 100% in Java against Standard TeamSite and Translation
    Service Provider APIs​
